In the previous video I have demonstrated how to write publisher and subscriber in C++ for the Torker
and listener application and all the application was very simple in C++.
There are a lot of configurations and operations we have to do in order to compile and then execute
the programs like for example adding executables of the program into the C made list then compile the
programs and then execute them.
So any change in the program we need to compile again and again it takes a lot of time.
This is why Python is another thing that is much simpler than C++ and in this video I'm going to show
how to write the publisher and subscriber in Python.
And then you can compare how easy it is as compared to this last version.
So not in this video.
I'm using the visual studio code editor and you can see the tail pipe.
And you know that right.
So let's look at the top which is the publisher of the topic.
So here first of all in every Python code we need to import let us fight.
OK.
And then we import the street type from Standard and then yes buy from Packard.
So we bring the string type because this is the type of the message that is going to be exchanged between
the target and the listener.
So you may remember from the previous videos where we described the talker and listener application
using C++.
So the talker and the listener exchanged a strong message.
So this is how we import the string message.
And then we really find the method that we call Tulkarm.
So later on we call the method into the main function.
So this is the main function of the Python code.
It is going just to call the toker method.
So the method is going to create a new publisher.
So we use your spine which is what you have imparted and we use the last publisher not a new publisher.
We specify the name of the topic and then the type of the message to be exchanged and then the buffer
size or the queue size will be equal to 10 years.
So this is our now publisher variable that you have created which we are going to use later on to publish.
So you can see here the syntax is very simple as compared to the C++ version.
OK so this is now just to remind you about the C++ version and what we have used the generic method
you know with the punches.
So and then you know we have to initialize the node using Glos fighter in it.
Where do we get the no need.
So the not name would be target here.
And Anonymous will be equal to two which means that I will choose a unique name for our Turkel.
So I just avoid having the same name for my opponents.
So then we are going to publish the topic every period of time.
So here we said the period of time to be one message per second which is a quote one hurts and then
inside the while loop.
Why not try Spight is shut down.
So this instruction allows to look forever until the user presses control C to exit the program.
Why not.
Was it shut down.
So why it is still running in this case we formulate a strong message.
So this is how we formulate the message in Python.
OK.
Hello word.
And then we're going to write the time.
And then we will print the string that will be published by the publisher.
And finally using the variable pub that we have created We're going to call that method publish of the
object.
And then we put all the stream methods that will be published by the publisher.
So let me specify that the tape will be streamed.
And finally we see a certain amount of times or rate to sleep and dream.
This is not the object that we have created to specify the sleeping rate equal to one second.
So this is a very simple program.
What you can see in Python.
It is pretty much simple.
Now looking at the listener code so remember the steps that we have described to develop the new subscriber.
So first of all we need to identify the name so that the name that we have put in the publisher is called
the chatter we need to identify the type of message.
In our case it is three.
And also we need to define a callback function.
This is the function that is going to be automatically executed whenever a new message arrives.
And finally we need to listen to the topic messages.
So lets apply these five steps in our code.
So as we mentioned the first thing when we want to define a subscriber is to identify the name of the
topic.
So since the publisher uses the name.
Schachter So here in order for this listener not to listen from the Torker it must also subscribe to
the same topic in the same name.
Schachter And before subscribing in the subscriber.
First of all with initializing the node and we give it a name and this name must be unique.
As I already explained before.
And then we subscribe to the topic of interest in our case it is chatter because this is the name of
the topic from the publisher and also it must be the same message.
So the message type here is history.
This is why we need to import straying from standard image s and looking at the documentation of thrusts.
So strong is a message in the Modu standard.
MS Yes it has only one field that is called data.
So we need to extract the information coming from the field data in the message.
We will see how we can do that.
So now that we have identified the name of the topic and the type of the message we need to define the
callback function does use the callback function out and callback is going to have a parameter.
So let me call this one as the message.
OK so I'm going to call this parameter.
It represents the message.
So when a message is received we're going just to print the content of the message OK.
And here the content of the message will be message.
This is the name of the object that data.
This is inside the message.
As I already mentioned to you looking at the documentation of string it has one attribute that is called
data.
OK so and then we're going to get the same information that was sent by the publisher.
And finally we need to be as you really imagine so that we keep listening on the topic whatever we find
in here we have the method we have the main method that is going to cause the listener method.
So now let's make the execution.
As you can see it's much simpler.
We don't need to make any kind of computation.
Normally you find that you make least five you know the semi-gloss five Remember it was used to executables
for the C++ version but for the bison we don't need to do anything only just executing the two fights.
So since we have been using your code we cannot open the integrated terminal and in one terminal I'm
going to start the talker node.
So first of all I'm going to run Rascoff.
Let me run it here in the background.
So you have now what was running and then a way to run the Rowse and let's sit on the list in the first
quarter.
This is CBP and then listner dog bite.
So we have to specify you bite because this is the name of a fight we want.
Of course there is nothing no show why white because there is no publisher.
So the designer keeps waiting until it receives something from the publisher.
We remember that now that it has contacted us master it advertise it.
It said that it is listening for a topic the name chatter and waiting for messages of steps 3.
Now the toastmaster is aware of this information in a second.
Let me know.
You can now Torker
and you can see you know the target is sending messages into war and then splitting the time this is
not the time it's exactly the same time here.
And on the other hand the listener so I go to the first is listening.
Hello.
I hear the word and hear the time.
OK so it is working pretty much right.
So instead of building the time it can be to counter the number of messages so I can make a quarter.
I equate it to zero.
And here I'm going to read in David Eagleman right after the operation.
You the Dogood here.
OK.
So again the.
Go you can see every second now it's showing the content and also if I make up the listener
OK is going to hear in the water.
And then also the counter
case or this is a very brief example of Publisher and subscriber in private.
So my recommended my recommendation even if you don't know by some it will be worth learning Python
and use it for developing programs even if you know C++ and you are expecting C++ because working with
Python will save you a lot of time.
I have been working a lot with C++ in ROS for so many years and after that I switched to Python because
Python language is really much much simpler than the C++ language.
And in any case you can write any program either in C++ or in Python depending on your taste and depending
on what you want to do.
But for example for advanced things like processing sensory data or making advances computations like
for example computer vision using Python libraries would be much easier.
So now we have finished with the first introduction on how to implement a talker and listener meaning
publisher and subscriber interest.
And let's do a little bit of practice now.